CS2610 - Monday, September 19 - Lecture 09 - Module 1

# Topics:
* [Announcements](#announcements)
* [Building an HTTP server in Python](#building-an-http-server-in-python)


------------------------------------------------------------
# Announcements

## Lucid Tech Talk at USU

*   **What**  taking Ownership as a New Engineer
*   **When**  6:00pm Monday, September 26th
*   **Where** Old Main 115
    *   Free Pizza!
    *   $300 in Prizes!

Starting out in industry as a new software engineer can be a taunting task. At Lucid we strive to create an environment where new engineers are able to take ownership of their roles and thrive in an autonomous fashion.

Whether it be learning new coding languages, developing in a different tech stack, or adopting a company's culture, Lucid has the tools to help you succeed. Come hear two of Lucid's engineers speak on how they grew in and adopted Lucid's values.

This is a great opportunity to hear from industry professionals and ask questions!


# Action Items


## Call on 2 designated questioners



# Building an HTTP server in Python

Let's begin with the Assignment #1 starter code and serve up a simple welcome page.


## *(Optional)* [Python review](../Python_Review.md)

If you're a Python greenhorn, this document may help you get up to speed.

There is also a **Python Intro** Canvas Course that I can invite you to.  Just send me an email and I'll get you set up.


## [Strings vs. Bytes](../Python_Review.md#strings-vs-bytes)

For experienced Python users, the most jarring part of this web server
assignment is that you will be dealing exclusively with *bytes* instead of
ordinary *strings*.


## [HTTP Response Status Codes](../HTTP.md#http-response-status-codes)

The server's response begins with a three-digit number indicating the
disposition of the client's request.  You've undoubtedly encountered a webpage
bearing the message `404 Not Found`.

Responses are grouped into five broad categories whose status codes share the
same first digit.  Response status codes are always accompanied by a
human-friendly translation.

| Category      | Digit | Examples                                                                      |
|---------------|-------|-------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| Informational |  1xx  | `100 Continue`, `101 Switching Protocol`                                      |
| Success       |  2xx  | `200 OK`, `201 Created`, `204 No Content`                                     |
| Redirection   |  3xx  | `301 Moved Permanently`, `307 Temporary Redirect`                             |
| Client errors |  4xx  | `400 Bad Request`, `401 Unauthorized`, `403 Forbidden`, `404 Not Found`       |
| Server errors |  5xx  | `500 Internal Server Error`, `501 Not Implemented`, `503 Service Unavailable` |


## Today's code

As I work, I will refer to Python's [official documentation](https://docs.python.org/3/library/http.server.html?highlight=basehttprequesthandler) for the `http.server` library.

0.  Print to the console the request headers that the browser sends our way
1.  Make a correct HTTP response 
    *   Include the `Server` header
    *   Include the `Date` header with a current time stamp generated by `strftime('%c')`
2.  Return a basic, hard-coded home page at the path `/`
3.  ~~For other requests, return a simple 404 page which echoes the path the user tried to reach~~
4.  ~~Use the `307 Temporary Redirect` status + the `Location` header to send requests to `/exit` over to `/`, then make the server quit~~
5.  ~~Use the `307 Temporary Redirect` status + the `Location` header to send requests to `/index.html` over to `/`~~
    ~~*   What happens to the old content at `/`?~~

*   You can use what we wrote today in class as a starting point for your assignment.
    *   ~~Crossed out~~ items are things that we didn't have time to do today.  We'll come back to those next time.
    *   *Be aware that I'm **not** going to write the whole thing for you in lecture.  This file is just a hint!*

[server.py](./server.py)



## Make your server auto-restart

Launch it in your shell within a `while` loop, like this:

```
while sleep .25; do python server.py; echo Restarting...; done 
```

*   If `sleep .25` doesn't work on your computer, try an integer instead (e.g. `sleep 1`)
*   Using the `sleep` command as your "truth" condition makes it easy for you to break the loop by hitting `Ctrl-C` twice in rapid succession
    *   It also saves your computer from overheating when you have a syntax error in your Python code



