CS2610 - Friday, September 23 - Lecture 11 - Module 1

# Topics:
* [Announcements](#announcements)
* [Finish building an HTTP server in Python](#finish-building-an-http-server-in-python)
* [Add a favicon to my site](#add-a-favicon-to-my-site)
* [Try out different Response headers with our Server](#try-out-different-response-headers-with-our-server)


------------------------------------------------------------
# Announcements

## ACM-W Ice Cream Party feat. Pluralsight

*   **What**  Ice Cream Party and Tech Talk with Pluralsight
*   **When**  3:30pm Friday, September 23rd
*   **Where** Old Main 416 *(subject to change, see below)*

Today at 3:30 in Main 416, we are having an ice cream party with Pluralsight (an online learning development platform).  Come and get to know other members and learn about internships and job opportunities at Pluralsight.

We may have to move into a different room though if too many people show up, but that's not a huge deal!



## Lucid Tech Talk at USU

*   **What**  Taking Ownership as a New Engineer
*   **When**  6:00pm Monday, September 26th
*   **Where** Old Main 115
    *   Free Pizza!
    *   $300 in Prizes!

Starting out in industry as a new software engineer can be a taunting task. At Lucid we strive to create an environment where new engineers are able to take ownership of their roles and thrive in an autonomous fashion.

Whether it be learning new coding languages, developing in a different tech stack, or adopting a company's culture, Lucid has the tools to help you succeed. Come hear two of Lucid's engineers speak on how they grew in and adopted Lucid's values.

This is a great opportunity to hear from industry professionals and ask questions!



## Free Software and Linux Club

*   **What**  Pick Your Side in the Holy Wars!
*   **When**  6:30pm Wednesday, September 28th
*   **Where** ESLC 053, [FSLC Discord server](https://discord.gg/p4jRxrQmqP)

You're either a pious saint in the Church of Vi, or an unholy apostate in the Cult of Emacs.

Unfortunately, not everyone has yet decided which holy text editor to worship.  At our next meeting you can practice the doctrine and teachings of each and decide which is more true for you.

Just don't bring Visual Studio - you will be excommunicated.


# Action Items

## Call on 2 designated questioners



# Finish building an HTTP server in Python

*   You can use what we wrote today in class as a starting point for your assignment.
    *   *Be aware that I'm **not** going to write the whole thing for you in lecture.  This file is just a hint!*
    *   ~~Crossed out~~ items are things that we wrote on [Monday, Sep. 19](../Lec09-Mon_Sep_19/README.md) and [Wednesday, Sep. 21](../Lec10-Wed_Sep_21/README.md)

0.  ~~Print to the console the request headers that the browser sends our way~~
1.  ~~Make a correct HTTP response~~
    *   ~~Include the `Server` header~~
    *   ~~Include the `Date` header with a current time stamp generated by `strftime('%c')`~~
2.  ~~Return a basic, hard-coded home page at the path `/`~~
3.  ~~For other requests, return a simple 404 page which echoes the path the user tried to reach~~
4.  ~~Use the `307 Temporary Redirect` status + the `Location` header to send requests to `/exit` over to `/`, then make the server quit~~
5.  ~~Use the `307 Temporary Redirect` status + the `Location` header to send requests to `/index.html` over to `/`~~
    *  ~~What happens to the old content at `/`?~~
6.  Send the CSS style sheet `style.css` (MIME type is `text/css`)
7.  Add a Favicon to the site (MIME type is `image/x-icon`)
8.  Experiment with different **Response Headers**

Once again, here's the [server.py](./server.py)



# Add a favicon to my site

Now that I can respond with that picture of an Anchor, we can finally give the site its own Favicon!

*   Create a favicon on [favicon.io](https://favicon.io/favicon-generator/)
*   Send it in response to the request that my browser has incessantly been making
    *   The correct MIME-Type of `favicon.ico` is `image/x-icon`
    *   Don't forget to send the `Content-Length`!



# Try out different Response headers with our Server

Let's see what happens when we add some Response headers to the output of our demo program [server.py](./server.py)

*   `Content-Length` try this with values that are smaller and larger than the size of `index.html`
*   `Content-Type` what happens when we tell the client that `index.html` is
    *   `text/html`
    *   `text/css`
    *   `application/octet-stream`
    *   `image/jpeg`
    *   `audio/mpeg`
    *   or even `text/plain`
*   `Cache-Control: max-age=3` - set this on the response that returns `style.css`
*   `Set-Cookie: Chocolate_Chip=yes`



